source/replication/replication-cksum.rst, before:


Replication Checksumming
------------------------

This section outlines replica checksumming using `pt-table-checksum`.

Unfortunately mysql statement based replication does not fully
replicate all statements safely (for example things relying on NOW()
execute using server time). To ensure integrity of replicas, checksums
should be run to compare master/slave values. This section outlines
notes using pt-table-checksum to work with replica checksums.

Investigating the Checksum Table
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Determine number of rows in the table::

    mysql> -- nrowsish
    mysql> select table_schema,table_name,table_rows,data_length,index_length,max_data_length,data_free from tables where table_schema='stimulation' and table_name='_stim_trial_events';

To see checksum progress::

    mysql> select * from information_schema.processlist where command != 'Sleep' 
and db='stimulation';

    mysql> select * from percona.checksums where db='stimulation';

Time the query, divide nrows by querytime to get the projected time

Repairing Errors discovered in database checksums
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TODO: document arguments to pt-table-checksum to generate repair SQL
... see also dbms code.

Tuning the `pt-table-checksum` runs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

checksum stuff - (todo: expand notes)
defaults can result in slow queries and therefore checksums on some tables
due to over-granularity of chunks
disabling query plan checking might facillitate this working,
but could result in spurious load
instead setting only some columns (--chunk-index-columns) can result in
duplicated chunks (keys are not unique), which breaks checks 
also, --chunk-size-limit likely needs a higher value for small record tables
  (which again could impact performance on big ones)
todo: check query plan disaled method for stimluation._stim_trial_events.
ostensibly once innodb update times stored, could do a 'dumber' check method. 

Percona Toolkit UDFs for pt-table-checksum
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The checksum functions provided out of the box in MySQL are not ideal for
performing bulk data checksums. Either they are too weak to provide a
reasonable level of confidence (e.g. `CRC32`), or are so cryptographically
strong that they are computationally expensive (e.g. `MD5`). To work around
these limitations, and provide a faster means to compute a reasonable checksum
result, percona has released specific UDFs (User Defined Functions) which
can be installed into the MySQL Server to facillitate checksumming.

For installations of 'percona server for mysql', these plugins are available
by default as part of the database installation, otherwise, they must
be compiled and copied to the mysql plugin directory.

Once the binary plugins are installed in the proper location, they must
be installed into the server as follows::

    mysql> CREATE FUNCTION fnv1a_64 RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libfnv1a_udf.so';
    mysql> CREATE FUNCTION fnv_64 RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libfnv_udf.so';
    mysql> CREATE FUNCTION murmur_hash RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libmurmur_udf.so';

To test the functions::

    mysql> select fnv_64("hello"),fnv1a_64("hello"),murmur_hash("hello");
    +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | fnv_64("hello")     | fnv1a_64("hello")    | murmur_hash("hello") |
    +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | 5062650224559373796 | -6615550055289275125 |  5504495257757250616 |
    +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

More information about these functions are available from:

  https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server/LATEST/management/udf_percona_toolkit.html

Also note: the murmur hash plugin in mysql has reported some issues:

  https://jira.percona.com/browse/PT-1420

Commit message:

source/replication/replication-cksum.rst: add percona-udf compilation steps

source/replication/replication-cksum.rst, after:


Replication Checksumming
------------------------

This section outlines replica checksumming using `pt-table-checksum`.

Unfortunately mysql statement based replication does not fully
replicate all statements safely (for example things relying on NOW()
execute using server time). To ensure integrity of replicas, checksums
should be run to compare master/slave values. This section outlines
notes using pt-table-checksum to work with replica checksums.

Investigating the Checksum Table
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Determine number of rows in the table::

    mysql> -- nrowsish
    mysql> select table_schema,table_name,table_rows,data_length,index_length,max_data_length,data_free from tables where table_schema='stimulation' and table_name='_stim_trial_events';

To see checksum progress::

    mysql> select * from information_schema.processlist where command != 'Sleep' 
and db='stimulation';

    mysql> select * from percona.checksums where db='stimulation';

Time the query, divide nrows by querytime to get the projected time

Repairing Errors discovered in database checksums
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TODO: document arguments to pt-table-checksum to generate repair SQL
... see also dbms code.

Tuning the `pt-table-checksum` runs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

checksum stuff - (todo: expand notes)
defaults can result in slow queries and therefore checksums on some tables
due to over-granularity of chunks
disabling query plan checking might facillitate this working,
but could result in spurious load
instead setting only some columns (--chunk-index-columns) can result in
duplicated chunks (keys are not unique), which breaks checks 
also, --chunk-size-limit likely needs a higher value for small record tables
  (which again could impact performance on big ones)
todo: check query plan disaled method for stimluation._stim_trial_events.
ostensibly once innodb update times stored, could do a 'dumber' check method. 

Percona Toolkit UDFs for pt-table-checksum
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The checksum functions provided out of the box in MySQL are not ideal for
performing bulk data checksums. Either they are too weak to provide a
reasonable level of confidence (e.g. `CRC32`), or are so cryptographically
strong that they are computationally expensive (e.g. `MD5`). To work around
these limitations, and provide a faster means to compute a reasonable checksum
result, percona has released specific UDFs (User Defined Functions) which
can be installed into the MySQL Server to facillitate checksumming.

For installations of 'percona server for mysql', these plugins are available
by default as part of the database installation, otherwise, they must
be compiled and copied to the mysql plugin directory. Ubuntu steps::

    # apt install libmysqlclient-dev # for headers
    # cd percona-server-5.6.40-84.0/plugin/percona-udf
    # make build && make install-lib && make install-fn

Once the binary plugins are installed in the proper location, they must
be installed into the server as follows::

    mysql> CREATE FUNCTION fnv1a_64 RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libfnv1a_udf.so';
    mysql> CREATE FUNCTION fnv_64 RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libfnv_udf.so';
    mysql> CREATE FUNCTION murmur_hash RETURNS INTEGER SONAME 'libmurmur_udf.so';

To test the functions::

    mysql> select fnv_64("hello"),fnv1a_64("hello"),murmur_hash("hello");
    +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | fnv_64("hello")     | fnv1a_64("hello")    | murmur_hash("hello") |
    +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+
    | 5062650224559373796 | -6615550055289275125 |  5504495257757250616 |
    +---------------------+----------------------+----------------------+

More information about these functions are available from:

  https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server/LATEST/management/udf_percona_toolkit.html

Also note: the murmur hash plugin in mysql has reported some issues:

  https://jira.percona.com/browse/PT-1420
